# python-api-challenge
In this challenge i have used Python requests, APIs, and JSON traversals to predict how the weather is like as we approach the equator? 

## Data Source
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC. 

## Features:
This challenge is broken down into two deliverables, WeatherPy and VacationPy.
Part 1: WeatherPy
In this deliverable, a Python script is created using WeatherPy.ipynb Jupyter notebook to visualize the weather of over 500 cities of varying distances from the equator.
1) Plots were created to Showcase the Relationship Between Weather Variables and Latitude by using  the OpenWeatherMap API. Next, I create a series of scatter plots to showcase the following relationships:
•    Latitude vs. Temperature
•    Latitude vs. Humidity
•    Latitude vs. Cloudiness
•    Latitude vs. Wind Speed

2)Computed Linear Regression for Each Relationship
Separate plots into Northern Hemisphere (greater than or equal to 0 degrees latitude) and Southern Hemisphere (less than 0 degrees latitude) was created.
Next, a series of scatter plots  showing the linear regression line, the model's formula, and the r values were created.
The following plots were created:
•    Northern Hemisphere: Temperature vs. Latitude
•    Southern Hemisphere: Temperature vs. Latitude
•    Northern Hemisphere: Humidity vs. Latitude
•    Southern Hemisphere: Humidity vs. Latitude
•    Northern Hemisphere: Cloudiness vs. Latitude
•    Southern Hemisphere: Cloudiness vs. Latitude
•    Northern Hemisphere: Wind Speed vs. Latitude
•    Southern Hemisphere: Wind Speed vs. Latitude

Part 2: VacationPy
In this deliverable, I used the Geoapify API and the geoViews Python library and employed Python skills to create map visualizations by using the VacationPy.ipynbstarter code and doing the following steps:
1. Created a map that displays a point for every city in the city_data_dfDataFrame with the size of the point representing the humidity in each city.
2. Narrow down the city_data_df DataFrame to find your ideal weather condition. 
3. Created a new DataFrame called hotel_df to store the city, country, coordinates, and humidity.
4. For each city, used the Geoapify API to find the first hotel located within 10,000 meters of your coordinates.
5. Added the hotel name and the country as additional information in the hover 
### Prerequisites
Tools need to have installed before project:
•    Python 
•    Matplotlib's
•    Jupyter Notebook
•    Geoapify API and GeoViews Python library
•    OpenWeatherMap API
•    GitHub
•    Local git repository python-api-challenge was created , cloned and changes    were pushed to main branch.

## Analysis
•   A brief analysis observations after each pair of plots, explaining what the linear regression is modeling and describing any relationships was added in the WeatherPyjupyter notebook.

